foreign
discussion but I wanted to start with
yeah believe everything a lot which is
I'm in a lot of whatsapps with GPS and
they're going I want to invest I want to
invest but there's no companies and then
I'm going on Twitter and the companies
are saying are any VCS investing and I
just want to understand how do you see
where we're at today especially when I
see what I just said there I've been
investing in Venture since 2013 as you
know
um we met fairly early in your career
and I I bolted out of the gates in 2013
right I did pipedrive talktis algolia
greenhouse and sales op all within 12
months I did almost no investing the
last 12 months and some of it's
certainly the macro I mean boy the
markets changed a lot 12 months didn't
they the world changed but it is I will
say and I will say I do think it's
harder to find good deals and I think it
is true and I think people are a little
bit full of it on the Twitter right and
on the social media and there's probably
a lot lot of it going on
um and and some of it is just that like
we just we we all have to reset which is
that we all took so much risk for two
years and the markets were so strong
that we're resetting to a day when we're
looking for so much more out of an
investment the bar's gone up and and
they are harder to find um but I think
that anyone who's you know I look at I
agree with you I look at folks on
Twitter they're like yeah it's it's
whatever January something 2023 I've
done 11 deals this year I'm like kudos
hahaha
kudos because I have I have not seen 10
times the qualified deal flow of 12 or
24 months ago I haven't seen it in these
times right can I ask what has changed
in what early stage investors are
looking for in the companies that we
back I wrote this at sort of the peak of
the media in 2021 when I was talking
with someone to Sequoia and they said
they called it the Postmates effect and
what they decided is that it I mean
obviously Sequoia is ahead of most of us
certainly me is that they realized early
on when things exploded post-pandemic
that at this point now number three or
number four the market could be worth
billions right Postmates like you know I
used it but in the US I think it was
number three or number four and it still
sold for almost three billion dollars
and so for ever since I was a Founder in
my first job and then an investor we
were always looking you had to be number
one right and back in the days when I
was competing with DocuSign I almost
wanted to jump off the roof if we
couldn't be number one in categories
right being number two wasn't good
enough right oh my God but then we
realized there was room for 10 vendors
in every category right payroll sales
automation or expense management it
right some of these products are hard to
tell the difference right and you don't
have to sweat it because when when brex
and ramp and expensify and Divi all of
them are worth billions it changed not
only did it change the size of outcomes
but it changed the way we invested we
didn't have to decide who was number one
and it was very stressful in the old
days like until 2018 to have to know if
they were number one you'd pass on so
many deals you would pass on so many
deals and I I don't think that's we're
back to that today but we're back to
pulling our hair out of realizing a
billion dollar outcomes really hard it's
really fracking hard right and and we
got so arrogant in 2021 so greedy
everyone with their unicorns I don't
think anyone brags about being a unicorn
today do they do founders brag about it
it's got out the window as a term of
bragification I'm just looking at a lot
of Founders who are dming me and they're
going I don't get what you want to see
do you want to see growth still do you
want to see profitability now do you
want to see margin Improvement what do
you want to see at the early stage so I
can Focus my efforts when you hear that
where do you go ah bad let me step back
for a minute I think the key to to
success in SAS and and B2B investing
that I only do and you do a lot of it
actually hasn't changed that much it's
that somehow somehow in
seven to ten years you've got to get to
100 plus million in Revenue okay you
just have to and and really today it
probably has to be closer to 200 million
because that's when you can really IPO
right approaching 200 million so you've
got a decade to get to 200 million like
there's you there are certain rates that
you just have to grow and whether and
and Mirage from Battery simplified it
all for triple triple double double
right for me in in the old days it's
like you know can you go from like one
to five and five quarters or less that
will also set you up that was I guess
that was a 5x but the math has to work
in Founders and the only thing that's
changed is the amount of capital you're
allowed to spend right in the old days
the rough rule is we could raise
including a b c d e f g h i and J rounds
you could raise a hundred total right
then that kind of grew to like three or
four hundred million as the IPOs got
bigger at the peak and now we're
probably back to 100 million which is
everyone has to be Capital efficient in
a way we forgot how to be and so VC is
unfortunately are looking for the
trifecta they're looking for top tier
growth but also some sort of top
quartile Capital efficiency and
um even at you know even at a million
even at a million in Revenue maybe not
you know 10K in mrr but even at a
million in error they're looking for
this combination and all the original
investments I did not everyone not
Benchmark Square they all met that bar
right they were all growing at top
decile rates but were pretty Capital
efficient and that's that's the market
today I think and they're harder to find
especially with
Founders burn rates and everything where
we have not fully reset uh if we are
going to reset to sort of the old day
expectations at least in SAS so I I do
want to talk to them I do just want to
finish on the Postmates the fat day
because I totally get you in terms of
Postmates effect but it's turned out not
to be true that was in a market it was
true for two years it was true there
were many exits there were many cash
exits right true in a micro environment
that was kind of artificially inflated
by you know certain stimulus by you know
yes bodies
um and now it's not true what happens in
a world then when the Postmates effect
isn't true there's two ways of looking
at there's the there's the VC
perspective and the founders perspective
okay let's step back for a minute um you
don't always have to directly compete
with someone else in your category you
can you can own a segment of it right
um You can own the SMB segment or the
mid Market or you can be focused on
e-commerce or a different vertical so
categories have more rooms for number
one than sometimes VCS realize right
there and that is certainly happened
assassin cloud is expanded especially
with vertical SAS
um but it's it's it's true um you I
think you have to have as Founders you
have to have conviction about why you
will truly win the the competition slide
finally matters again like why will you
win and I always knew it as a founder
and I think the best Founders know it
um and we need to know and it it
certainly alarms me investing when I ask
a Founder you know why will you beat the
competition and they don't know right um
or my my version of that question is is
I asked them why did whomever stumble
why did Postmates stumble why did
whoever stumble and the best Founders
always have a story and they know why
they're going to win and the almost
great Founders are like I'm not sure I'm
not sure why my competitor stumbled I
don't know if that answers the question
but um I think you have to be number one
but the good news for Founders is there
are more number ones I think in most
categories than existed a few years back
because SAS is bigger I totally agree
with that in terms of the Market
expansion that I do want to ask you know
when we look at and you look at Paul
earlier companies today when you look at
the buying patterns what are you seeing
in terms of overall SAS buying patterns
today yeah I have a very different
perspective than Twitter there is a a
subset of categories that are doing fine
let's be clear they're doing fine there
is a subset that's deeply troubled and
there's there's a bunch in the Middle
where it's just a little bit it's a
little bit or a lot harder and so be it
that's called life right but these folks
who are saying this is the world's worst
recession since the Tulip age in in
Holland are out of their minds they
haven't they have no life experiences
um and it's not evenly distributed and
let's talk about a few examples for a
minute but before we even get there
think about folks maybe in your
portfolio area that are selling to
health care in the US there's no
downturn in healthcare right now there's
nothing and I can't imagine it's
different in the UK so yes I'm sorry if
you sell only to overfunded startups you
may think that this is the worst
recession since 1811 but if you sell to
healthcare and then let's give some
others you don't see an issue for
example in my portfolio like let's let's
take a a really interesting example
which is B2B e-commerce okay now B2B
Commerce I have two leaders I've
invested in gorgeous which is number one
contact center in Shopify and then
algolia which we talked about before or
about half of algoli's business is in
e-commerce and interestingly you can see
the future because e-commerce actually
peaked early in 2020 and then it fell
off a cliff and it hit rock bottom in
the beginning of 2021 okay it hit the
beginning of 21 and then kind of rock
bottom is 2022 came back but e-commerce
rebounded in the second half of 2022. it
came back look at shopify's number
Shopify at the end of 2022 was not the
rocket ship it was at Peak covid but
Shopify has stronger numbers at the end
of 2022 than it did at the start and so
when you look at folks like gorgeous
um on its own like it's gross it grew
faster in the second half of last year
than in the beginning if you look at
algolia it half its business is Ecom
half assassed the SAS folks have
multiple impacts pro and con but the
e-commerce is up right so there's lots
of effects and they're not even you and
I are both co-investors in a company
called Revenue cat we're emailing on it
Revenue cat automate subscription
management for mobile it was a rocket
ship then in coveted it blew up then it
kind of plateaued and then it
re-accelerated at the end of this past
year re-accelerated 2022 and it has its
own issues but there's not a lot of
macro issue use impacting it so I'm not
saying it's easy out there it is hard
but but go find the segment of your
customer base that's winning go find
Healthcare or e-commerce or mobile or
some part of infrastructure mongodb OCTA
these companies are doing really really
well right they're doing really really
well get some of that business so
maybe it's not quite the question you're
asking but I kind of quit on Founders
that say the world's ended I kind of
quit on them what do you say to the
founders we're actually they're doing
really well and they're still getting a
battering when you look at quite a lot
of the SAS companies they're down 20 30.
buy the multiple yeah
um well I say praise the Lord You're
private you know it's not fun Harry
um and I've only experienced this once
as a startup executive but but I've seen
it in a few Investments it's not fun to
be running a public company that's down
70 when your revenues are up it's really
not fun it's a it's a morale Crusher and
you tell the team to ignore it you tell
the teams there will be ups and downs I
did a great interview with Spencer from
amplitude he was like we prepared the
team for this like we said there'd be
ups and downs I just didn't know there'd
be this down because amplitudes pretty
much hit all of its numbers it's a great
one right so that's at least in a
private company you can hide a bit and
it is a gift of being private you can up
as long as you there's no down round or
a lot of drama you you can hide a little
bit and maybe that's not the question
exactly you're asking but it's a benefit
of being private is that you can duck
out some of these issues if you don't
need to raise Capital totally agree with
you because we mentioned like the buying
patterns in terms of marketing spans how
are you seeing marketing spans impacted
across the board and and are you
concerned about that I am running the
media company that I do I'm concerned
about it you know we work I have a I
have a limited visibility through my
portfolio of like 25 larger Investments
but we have 200 sponsors for saskar
right and you have quite a few
um look it's it's exactly what this is
one thing where Twitter has it right
okay which is that a marketing has
become myopic marketing is focused on
this quarter right what can I spend to
get more Revenue this court I'm under
pressure from my board my revenues are
down in some cases and my and my burn
rate has to last longer so the CEO is
only approving these these marketing
expenses that create Revenue immediately
and they do exist out there right but
the problem is it's it's such a small
part of marketing that that pays off the
only part that really pays off is like
funnel assist like taking someone that's
almost ready to buy and then they hear
about they hear about someone on 20 BC
and that magic moment gets them to buy
the next week like but nothing else and
and so we're cutting too much in
marketing and I'll tell you what I think
we should be doing we're cutting too
much and it's going to hurt everybody
not this week or even this quarter but
it's going to hurt everyone's going to
not going to have enough pipeline at the
end of the year when I think things will
be better I think things will be better
for startups at the end of this year and
I think we will all be hurting for
Pipeline and I think we're all making
the mistake we've made in each of the
last downturns I mean Mark benioff in
his book wrote his biggest mistake in
the last out in turns was cutting sales
and what did he just do cut sales
[Laughter]
he's making them he's making the same
mistake three times and if Mark can't
help himself I guess I can't blame any
Founders but we're all gonna come out of
this with not enough sales capacity and
not enough pipeline it's just gonna
happen so I'm a seed founder seed slash
series a yeah yeah I'm being told by
everyone you got a cup burn you go to
extend Runway but then I'm also hearing
you saying your pipeline's going to be
short at the end of the year and
actually so what do I do Jason well the
answer is it's it's actually pretty
simple It's Going Back to Basics which
is be data driven if you have a sales
and marketing leader right or whoever it
is give them a budget it's just that
simple okay you have I have a million
dollars to spend this year in marketing
and I have an incremental half million
in sales you make the decision right you
make the decision and spend that one
million the best you can cut in the
marketing budget to zero wrong answer
right let them optimize what they can do
with the million and Trust in your team
I think we can't solve everything we do
most of us have to extend Runway right
now right we have to we have to extend
it but I think we're over cutting and
marketing by not empowering people to
have budgets and we're doing the same in
sales just tell them look you have this
much to spend this year this quarter
this month and then trusting your team
to make the best hires
um layoffs don't really solve anything
they're just little they're little
snacks right they make little
incremental changes but layoffs don't
create growth on their own right so say
great okay fine even if you did a layoff
for 10 or 20 you're still going to have
budget for this year hey head of sales
you get 20 hires you get 20 hires and
you go decide who those 20 are going to
be you've hit your number right same
with marketing and I don't see enough of
this trusting the adults on your team
with a number and I don't see enough I
don't see strong enough Ops and finance
support helping them do that because we
don't all know how to do that
intuitively right we need some help from
budgeting and planning to manage it uh
many VPS Dean help I think also it's
bluntly we've had a generation where
budgeting and planning has not been a
central Focus because of the liquidity
that we've had in the system and
actually yeah there might have even been
none in some cases I mean absolutely I
mean uh QuickBooks and FTX is a
wonderful example
um I wouldn't have that for QuickBooks I
remember the first time I never really
worked with the VP of marketing before
the first startup job I had right and I
remember we went through a situation
where we had to cut the budget right and
everyone that everyone that was young on
the team was kind of freaking out in our
cool 50 000 square foot office in SF but
we had one we had one person on the team
over 35 or so at the time and he walked
in he's like okay understood um tell me
what my new budget is and I'll start
executing on tomorrow just that was the
answer and I'm like who is this who is
this Godlike character the only seasoned
executive on our team but that was the
right answer tell me what my new budget
is and I will get you as much as much
leads as many pipelines as many
opportunities as I can with my budget
just tell me just tell me what it is and
I'll go execute that's what you want
from your sales and marketing team not
you know come to me with the perfect
because the problem in marketing Harry
is everything has crappy Roi if you want
to talk about marketing here's the
problem this is why CAC is such a flawed
metric because if your cust let's say
your average deal size is 5K a 5k your
customer
you're real you're actually not going to
have anything that's where you can spend
five thousand dollars to get a five
thousand dollar customer you're gonna
have a lot of stuff that's viral that's
free that's word of mouth that's people
telling their friend and that that CAC
the marketing's close to zero right even
with other words and then frankly your
average customer is going to cost you
like 10 grand to get five grand right
and if they stay five years you're ahead
if they refer their friends your head if
you steal it from a customer you're
ahead if you hit your plan and raise the
round your head but all of these
marketing programs are too expensive and
so if you view them too simplistically
you just don't mark it and that's what
people are doing they're just doing
nothing and um it's going to fail them
instead they should be doing the best
they can with the budget they have so if
we put on a hand of a sales leader or a
Founder when we think about like Target
assessing how do we do Target setting in
a market like this where there is such
volatility and uncertainty this is where
there's a lot of burden on CEOs and CEOs
have to have to be the adults in the
room and they have to do it the right
way you got it you gotta slow down first
of all you have to look at your trailing
velocity you have to look at your last
three to four months average the growth
rate average the burn rate and that's
who you are whoever whatever you've been
growing or burning last week even if you
want to be a different person even if
you don't like how you look that's who
you are the average of your last three
to four months and that that's your base
plan and then you have to calmly sit
down and say hey if I don't like that
how do I do better and how and be
realistic about it you can only inflect
a curve so much if you if you if let's
say you're let's say last year you were
growing you were growing 200 but for the
last four months you've only been going
20 right that's your average growth rate
that's you today and if you go to your
sales team and say we're going to get
back to 100 by the end of the year you
may destroy the team right you have to
level you have to take that trailing
three to four months average and scale
it gradually scale it up to something
that is sane and you have to importantly
do it with the burn rate I think we've
gotten better the last couple months but
people that don't do this on the burn
rate are still going to drive their cars
right off the cliff this year they're
going to drive their cars right off the
cliff one of the big mistakes you're
seeing there Jason look the the biggest
mistake I I've seen which
is probably twofold um the number one
one is not enough sensitivities to
models and this got people in trouble
last year but it's going to hurt again
this year which is that if you miss your
growth plan even by a smidge it can
dramatically increase your burn rate
people do not build sensitive enough
models right if I've hired all this head
count extra head count and they don't
hit the number but I've incurred all the
expenses for that head count my burn
rate often is materially higher than I
think so people don't build the right
sensitivity analysis to when they
underperform right so you have to have
at least either you have to have a great
model or what you have to do is build a
worser Case Model right where you miss
the plan significantly and you're sort
of stuck with a certain amount of
expenses and just understand what your
burn rate is so so really that's the
that's the biggest problem I see the
second one is there is still delusion
out there on the odds of raising a a
later round there's still delusion
across all of the markets and I'm still
anger Founders when I bring it up I
still get toxic comments but you just
have to assume absent evidence you're
unfundable
like go find go get a term sheet or just
go get someone you trust to tell you hey
Harry if you hit 10 million going to
these numbers I will write you a trip
sheet go prove me wrong but assume you
are unfundable
um and it's I mean I literally I'm going
to write a small check into a great
second time founder that had a
multi-billion dollar exit right and I
was talking to him this week I'm like
what's your plan and he's like he's
going to raise a pretty small amount of
money in his first round I'm like I
think you need more I mean you've built
a huge Enterprise before he's like I'll
just go raise the a or the B later this
year I'm like Oh my friend like you've
been out of Market
okay raise it all now raise every dollar
you can get now it's not what you would
say raise it or not because this is the
other question why but then a lot of
people say well actually you know now is
the worst time because now everything's
uncertain it may be worse later but it
will probably be more certain or maybe
more certain now it feels like kind of
you don't think I think things are
settling into certainty I think they are
uncertain at the end of last year I
think they're settling into certainty I
think think we've had crummy multiples
in the public markets for three quarters
now and I think we have everyone has
reset what they want to do in a world
where
we're dealing with you know to simplify
and SAS we're dealing with 5x air a 5x
ARR World okay do you want to be bullish
do you want and I can give you a story
from today do you want to be bullish and
say we're going to come out of that
world aggressively do you want to be a
Debbie Downer and say we'll never get
out of it which some people are fine but
I think people do have a thesis now this
year I think they've settled on a thesis
on they've adjusted that we're in a 5x
ARR World okay and they've decided how
they're going to view what's their world
view around that uh will it stay will it
recover will it recover a little bit or
will it get even worse uh different
views out there I don't know uh but I
got this this morning I got a first
growth offer of 2023 on a portfolio
company and it was interesting they were
aggressive not everyone is out of all I
would say 90 of growth I don't know what
you see you have you might see more than
me I would say 90 of growth investors
are mostly out of market like they're
not actively investing but some are some
some want to some either want Bargains
which I'm not sure exist right or are
they're making a bullish bet and this
one actually was an offer at 15x ARR
which was interesting said this is this
is what we will do for a top decile
company that's it but this is we've this
is our thesis okay this was our thesis
for the best ones not for any company
15x ARR right
um and there are over 100 don't want to
take any risk right
um depending on the stage 50 to 100
growth right
um and profitable or close that's the
kicker
profitable so they'll take the AR risk
the 15x right about this is 50 million
and above 50 million AR this is their
thesis right they'll even actually take
a little bit less growth but it's got to
be basically profitable right that's
their thesis which and there's logic in
that right because they're saying there
won't be another check probably do they
have late prefs do they have protection
on the downside because I think this is
the other thing that people forget it's
a different issue right and I actually
personally don't think any of that stuff
matters we could talk about it
um what I think it does for employees
because they see the numbers of like 1.5
billion valuation but if it sells for
500 your growth investors will still be
made good because they only raise 250
but few as employees you'll be
underwater
if as an employee if you join a company
with in in 2023 with evaluation over a
billion as an employee you're going to
make nothing
it doesn't matter what it sells for you
can make nothing
there are no 100 billion dollar outcomes
you are probably not joining Microsoft
or adobe or whatever and those took
forever there are there will be an
occasional figma and that's why we
invest right but what are the what are
the incredible ones what are the
hashicorps worth what are the git Labs
Worth right they're they're these are
not worth 15 or 20 billion dollars you
will make nothing so don't worry about
your Equity when you join a unicorn like
last year joining a unicorn was a smart
play today if you care about Equity it's
a sucker play right
um you're not going to make anything
you're not going to get any rsus and
you're not going to make anything
so though Hashi corpse 5 and get lab six
now yeah those should be those should be
20 billion dollar companies Harry they
should be 20 billion dollar company so
where's the Injustice there is it is it
that that like misvalued is it that
they're like I don't understand when you
say they should be I don't know I just I
I this is this is the problem of a seed
investors you have you have very
passionate views about these companies
but how can hashicorp be at over 500
million in Revenue growing what what the
heck is it growing over 50 right how can
it be worth less than 10x
this is a gen these are generational
companies gitlab and hashicorp are
generational companies right how can
they be worth these amounts it's very
hard and the truth is we can talk about
how VCS make money it's actually very
hard for employees to make money on
these companies
um you know it's very hard for most
employees to make money on anything that
doesn't have a 10 Billion Dollar Plus
outcome it's very hard to get rich as an
employee can I ask oh okay a couple of
things one do you have to think about
dipping into public markets you know you
all are energy of SAS you look at the
essence in general why are you not just
aggressively deploying into your
hashicoops in your git Labs I think
folks have iconics and others have done
a lot of crossover investments into the
best ones right
um for me I have done a tiny a tiny bit
but um I I think it's a personally I
find it a distraction right we talked we
started this conversation and we talked
before we started about finding more
gems startups anything anything you do
that takes you away from that kibbett
scene in the public market it's not
worth it it's not worth it let's step
back as hard as things are Harry there
is a magic in a Solo GP practice or
maybe a 2gp fund which is Ventures so
hard but good God Harry if you own if
you're a solo GP and you own 10 of git
lab today you make 100 million dollars
yourself
okay so I don't want to screw around
with a few shares of OCTA or Hashi
corporate these are companies I love I
don't even want to screw around with a
lot of shares of them if if there's any
chance if there's any chance I can find
another talk desk or algolia or
pipedrive or sales off or if I can find
a gitlab or figma like you should drop
everything if you have a chance of
investing in even one of these deals you
should drop everything and do it and
this was the first time I ever worked
with a VC figure out anything Adventure
this is what I learned I was with my
mentor and he's like here's this VC of a
guy that was uh what's now ivp and he's
like you know what I learned about this
guy when he finds one deal he drops
everything he drops everything right we
were visiting a public company that had
iPod is worth 8 billion and he did one
deal a quarter and drop everything you
want to make that's the answer and so
when I see VCS on Twitter talking about
how they're looking at buying some
shares of Shopify I honestly I think
they're losers
well I can go find the next Shopify you
can make like Ventures so hard to make
money but if you're privileged enough to
be able to write a significant checkbook
you can make a lot you're not going to
make as much money as a CEO but you can
make a lot of money but it's hard you've
got to find the next Shopify right but
God it's a gift so go spend all of your
time doing that stop screwing around on
on and to put it all into QQQ or vti I
have everything public I own is almost
all vti
I can't put in the stock market ignore
it we mentioned that pricing of some
great assets like you know
what about the three to ten million
dollar error companies last year who
would have value to 100x air or I've got
one that was a thousand X ARR yes what
happens to those companies in this
market do they just ride out their
massive runways yeah I mean it really
depends on the founders I I don't have
any thousand X error I have two two
companies I've invested in that are
doing okay that have like a decade of
Runway right so we'll see what they do
like well I actually don't know of these
two right we'll see what they do with
their decade of Runway um that's the
first time in my lifetime right in Tech
where that could happen right where you
can get so much Capital that you could
have a decade of Runway and you could
just fart around and do whatever you
want right do you mark them down to your
LPS one and two do you say to them
you've got a decade of Runway give cash
back like this is uh I've marked down
only one
um because uh if you're growing at a
decent rate I I don't I I don't know
that a markdown at the sea level helps a
lot if the company is growing I think if
the company's stale it makes a lot of
sense to mark it down right
um but uh but I only have one portfolio
company that's not really growing and
that one I did I did I did Mark down or
maybe one and a half I would say I would
say I would say there's two if you're
not growing I think it makes sense to
Market down if it's growing at a decent
rate I think um if you're not Fidelity
or a late save duster I think it's a
waste of your time to mark up or mark
down because
um I asked all my LPS this question they
said if it's growing they don't care
um uh but I don't think that's the
question you asked at the beginning
right is what's going to happen to these
folks right
um and I think um I think it's terrible
Harry I tried to summarize my thinking
actually today in a tweet which is in
the old days
before 10 million in in ARR you could
just couldn't raise much money you could
only raise 5 10 12 million and so you
sold your company for 100 million which
is still very hard to do there are not
that many 100 million dollar exits you
know even in the best of times but
everyone makes money you raise 10 if you
this is my old saster rule if you sell
for 10x or more than you raise like it's
all pretty good no matter what the it
gets worked out you can work out the
valuation you can change this right but
when you raised massive amounts of money
early how are you going to sell for 10x
what you raise who's going to buy you
for 500 million dollars you're dead
you're and I don't have an answer for
these ones I I think that they the
answer the best answer may be to combine
with a competitor right
um and and build some sort of critical
mass with your combined revenue and
capital streams but I I think it's sad I
wish I have a lot of answers um in SAS
but this one you know you raised they're
just exits are rare
they're really really rare and VCS don't
talk this way and Twitter doesn't talk
this way they're very they're they're
very rare
um I've only in all my startups as a
Founder I only had a handful of true M A
offers that were decent only a handful
that's what I found funny though with
the last couple of years is the amount
of times you're like I don't know if
it's a 50 billion dollar company but
it's definitely a 10 billion dollar yeah
definitely a 10 and you're like 10 is
[__] big
um I do want to go back to you said
about like hey if you joined the company
at over a billion like you're not gonna
make money question then are we gonna
see this like great resignation away
from those super overvalued companies
and they're going to start new companies
and it's going to be this glorious age
of innovation with this Talent or
actually they're gonna go I might not
make any money on My Equity but I'm paid
okay I haven't been laid off security is
really important everyone that says that
this is going to lead to a a wave of new
innovation I think there's some truth to
it don't get me wrong but I think what
everyone what old timers anyone that's
been doing this more than five to seven
years forgets is that the typical Tech
work we'll say is nothing like five to
seven years ago
um this ever what happened is it you
used to have to when I started in Tech
you had to be crazy to do a startup when
I told my dad I was doing a startup the
first time just joining one he said this
is I say Seiko do it but it's a terrible
Financial idea I'm like and I went
through the math and how it works is
such let's say I'm taking a 50 salary
cut and like if everything goes right
someday after all these years I might
make a million dollars but divide it by
this many years he's like this is a
terrible idea he said but go do it right
so first of all you had to be insane
right and then and then as things got a
little bit bigger you I kind of had to
be just kooky to do a startup like not
not a Founder but just to join one you
had to be a romantic you had to be one
of these people that's like I just can't
fit in at an adobe or or or or Microsoft
or whatever and then startups sucked so
many human beings into it thousands of
sdrs thousands of AES thousands of of
marketing managers and social media
strategists that these became just or
highly paid ordinary jobs highly paid
ordinary jobs and I don't think any of
those people are going to go often start
the next figma
I think they're going to continue to
look for a job they can kind of phone it
in and make a lot of money and and Tech
went from one of the a risky terrible
pain segment to like the best risk
reward segment in in in the economy for
for three years for three or four years
it was such a good deal come out of
college
um be handed a whole bunch of warm leads
at the peak of the of the pandemic and
make 200 Grand in sales I mean this is
this is an insane world right published
three three tick tocks a week and make
140 like I don't think we're going back
to that and I don't think those people
are are looking to start a figma but um
so I think what will happen with that
dislocation is it remains to be seen I I
My worry is actually I think there's
this generation of kind of entitled but
also pretty crap
um team members that are also terrible
they're terrible this is a triggering
topic but the quality plummeted as we
hired mainstream normal people the the
quality plummeted any any leader will
tell you this quietly any any VP Mark
Benny I've said it last week like
they'll tell you the quality went down
the last three years way down do you
meet the broader team because like
actually when you're investing in
companies you know you're investing in a
company not in a Founder to be clear
like you are shareholder of the company
and so do you meet those like the head
of marketing because I I mean some head
of marketers that sponsor the show Jason
and I'm like you are [__] like that was
that was terrible and I would never have
invested in your company if I'd known
you ahead of marketing the latest I do
is late seed um but I'll tell you a
story I do I don't meet with the whole
team because usually there isn't much of
a management team I do for sure always
spend a lot of time with the CTO this is
my cheat
um I view the CEO as the proxy for sales
and marketing like if the CEO is great
with some help maybe you and I can we're
working on a search the other day we can
help you find a sales and marketing
leader but I don't really care who you
have at 100K and AR or 1 million like
you you are that person but the the CTO
is the product right usually so that's I
think the mistake 90 of VCS make is they
haven't built product themselves they
don't even know how to talk to a CTO or
a technical co-founder and I find them
the funnest conversation so that's as
far as I usually go but uh when I've
invested at the edge of a right I
certainly do and I remember when I was
starting investing there was a Founder I
really I just liked him I knew him he
was so charismatic and they had pretty
good traction
and I went and and it was great and I
kind of wanted to do the deal it was
cheap yeah always a good sign Adventure
when it's cheap right have a good love a
good deal love a good deal and I went up
and I met with the VP of sales I'm like
how's it going he's like I'm quitting
he's like he's like we're not gonna make
it I'm like okay this is learning next
bring in the head of marketing and the
header Market is like yeah I was like
the office manager until recently I
don't know a lot about marketing it's
like okay I did I said to the CEO before
I left the office I'm like listen I'm
not you're I'm not your Hail Mary
and um so I do do that and I think the
meta learning you know and I reflect a
lot on this today is you do have to be
careful with the [__] artist right
so I don't know if you need to meet all
the management but you gotta you gotta
talk to enough people I think to push
through the the bullsh [__] artist
and I think the [__] artists really
benefited from the boom right they
really did well uh from less scrutiny um
it's not just Sam Blankman fried or
however you pronounced his name they're
all over the place in SAS and cloud and
you got to meet enough people to make
sure that you're not investing in the
[__] artist I totally agree with you
because I one Trend that I'm seeing now
is like given how tough it is just
bluntly yeah the mature Founders the
fathers the and the mothers and the more
mature-minded of weathering it well they
know that if that child got sick it's
gonna be much worse than a recession but
yeah the young young Founders their
volatility is very extreme in the highs
they're selling secondaries and buying
Gucci's and in the loads they're
absolutely on floor and I'm really
seeing the power of the mature founder
and gravitating towards them are you as
well I get the point about maturity I do
think that you can be passionate at any
age you can be passionate at 80 or 90
about your startup but I I do think that
passion is so important right for what
you're doing so I hear the Comfort I
think we have to be careful let me
answer the question I think we have to
be careful in tougher times what we take
comfort in it's like taking comfort in a
low burn rate hooray
hooray I call this a strategic Retreat
if you do a brief strategic Retreat as a
startup it's fine take a quarter get
your house in order right get rid of
that terrible VP cut your burn rate but
if you stay in strategic Retreat for a
year you never pull out of it right I
see this is what I see happen too often
over my decade of investing is when folk
and this is what I worry about today I
don't I worry about strategic Retreats
and so if I see a Founder that's young
and very passionate and they're
struggling I can try to help them but if
they cross that line into full strategic
Retreat I I I I I I I I lack ideas so
yeah the season folks they like
they know what to do that second right I
remember like you know going back in
time in March 2020 when we had to cancel
saster annual the night before we lost
10 million dollars okay the team was my
team was all first timers they were
devastated Harry they worked for this on
a year and we lost 10 million dollars in
one night
took me about 15 minutes
okay I waited I saw this happening I saw
the first ship come into San Francisco
with covet on it from this tour ship
this and I knew and then and then I I
fought it I fought it and then the
moment came when the fight was over
right Santa Clara County said there's no
covid here in the Bay Area but we're
shutting down larger events and so I
just called it that day and the team was
I'm like okay it took me about 11
minutes maybe five minutes to be your
adult right because I'd seen this I'd
seen this Playbook before right it
didn't even bother me all that much
because I had to go in to fix it mode
but I don't know that makes me a better
person or better I mean you know the
first time Founders are so powerful
right they're so powerful by the same
time they both they both have
superpowers right it does make you
better it does make you better because I
think for me it's like the only thing
that matters here and Jason why am I
successful it's not because I'm [__]
smart um we both know I'm not it's just
I'm just doggy and persistent I just
kept going like you there when you had
the [__] of [__] you went okay let's
carry on
yeah I think that's good I just think
not not to sound like fuddy-duddies or
to talk about the laziness that's gone
into Tech I think that's true but also I
worry today that more not not just not
necessarily Founders but I worry too
many seasoned folks just quit too
quickly now they just waiting for that
easy job they quit they're jumping
they're jumping and startups are meant
to be hard they're meant to have these
these hard periods but yes young young
new Founders young Founders the
emotionality and the downturn can be I'm
not sure I'm compatible with it
Jason we're both being fun managers what
happens to LP markets in this well I can
just tell you what I've learned with my
LPS right and I'm a small a very small
check for for ilps but I have a lot of
good commentally like I have a lot
because of Alex bangus I have a lot of
overlap with initialized with atomic
with we have a lot of LP overlap so I
think what I've learned is interesting
not one none of them want another
manager they don't okay it's not that
they won't take another manager in like
they they will right if you or I sent
one of them an email and said this is
the best new fund on planet Earth they
will probably write up write a check
right but no one wants another manager
simple answer no one wants another
manager two they're pretty chill right
now they're pretty chill
um the LPS that have been doing this for
a while I heard versions of this from
three or four top LPS which is we still
believe fundamentally this is the best
asset class in our portfolio and this is
part and parcel of the asset class now
for this one on for five years
they might reassess whether Timber or
diamonds or Ventures should be in the
portfolio but right now people people
are pretty chill with it and the last
Insight which I didn't totally get into
my last LP meeting which was just a few
weeks ago which is a lot of LPS are
judged on an annual basis right they're
judged annually and last year actually
was great for a lot of LPS because I
didn't get this but the last big exit I
had was sales Loft which sold for two
and a half billion to Vista on December
31st
2021 but by the time the LPS got their
distributions especially from IPOs
they're deep into 2022. so a lot of LPS
this is just what this was not this you
may be scheduled this is what I've heard
a lot of LPS may be worried about 2023
when they may have no distributions
right but 2022 was much better even if
the stock market was down cash in many
cases cash was pretty good compared to
model right because of the lag the cash
collections lag okay could all save and
gross for 2023 be the distributions from
figma when you look at the amount of LPS
across the different funds from Kleiner
to index and everyone in between there's
a lot of LPS in there that's a lot of
distributions
I think it'll help I think there's so
much money in Venture now though we
wouldn't I would need someone smarter
than me to throw together a spreadsheet
to say is it enough right so how much
did figma sell so figma generated 10
billion of venture returns out of 20
let's say right
um is that enough compared to the size
of the funds in figma it it might not be
enough like that again going back to the
start of the conversation Venture is a
hard business right and if if that 10
billion represents sort of 50 billion of
funds right in coverage then it's uh
it's helpful but it's not going to rain
right I think we'll see the death of
many of the microphones the funds that
range from Founders Public Market
Founders who now have had their net
worths crushed and then GPS like me and
you who bluntly are probably riding less
LP checks than we did before I think
they're going to be decimate I think
there already are decimated they don't
know it I think the last two years were
insane were insane and kudos to everyone
that raised every new a manager with
absolutely no track record whatsoever no
exits I'm sitting on likely a 1x
portfolio at best was able to raise
double digit million first time fund
kudos to you because that never happened
in Venture before okay I literally when
I raise Sasser fund one in 2016 we knew
each other then you I still have some of
the testimonials on the website people
thought it was insane they're like how
could one person raise 60 million
dollars like they're like that's so much
so much money right and and I already
was by then like it was still early in
my career but I already was almost 4X
from like real companies with
significant ownership positions right
not like not like throwing a check into
into something and so it was I hope that
the new managers know that it's a gift
and I hope that they leverage that gift
because
um you can make so much money in Venture
if you invest extremely well but
investing at a mediocre level only gets
you fees right so use your if you're a
new manager with a new fund don't waste
your shots like I think we all wasted a
few shots the last couple years I know I
wasted did one or two I wish I could get
them back I didn't waste 20 but times
were so good I wasted shots don't waste
don't maybe don't waste a shot if you're
a new manager right just assume this
funds your your last one
um but one figma one one hashicorp one
that you can make a lot of money do you
don't think so you don't think you make
a lot of money on one oh no I totally
think you do but do you know your win is
early for those that are the figments in
the hashicorps or the sale is lost or
the algolias yeah do you know it earlier
you ever surprised I I can only share my
experience I think people will have
different experiences I think you know
that they are operationally successful
early
um you know that they're gonna grow I
had no idea that any of my cash unicorns
right the ones that were exited for
building I didn't think any of them
would except for talk desk I did it's
not that I didn't love the founders it's
just it's just so hard right it's just
so hard to build these companies that I
would not have predicted that pipedrive
algolia sales Loft would get that big I
knew talk test would just because going
from you know 1 to 15 million with so
few employees in a year with so much
product Market fit in there that you're
like okay well this is going to be worth
a billion but not more right not the 10
billion on paper but I think so I think
the meta learning is just like get into
winners and just just don't worry about
the stock market don't worry about
multiples because you can't control it
and it's going to change so many times
like it takes 10 years to get a billion
dollar exit like M A IPO can rates 10
years for so the Market's going to
change a lot in 10 billion right don't
don't you don't even need to look other
than to understand follow-on capital and
burn rates just just do it but I do
think I know people disagree I do think
if you're able to invest post revenue
and SAS
um you you can you know you know it's
gonna be gonna do reasonably well and
you also know it's probably going to
have a crappier in there I think me and
you oh I didn't I I'd speak for myself I
definitely have a sweet spot of My Life
by post product 20 to 40K in Revenue you
have some customers you have some data
the Founder's probably still leading the
sales process but there's something
there there's that seedling of goodness
you know the truth that's where I
started investing because I was like I'm
a Founder like I I I I I just I need to
invest at least in a moment in time
where I can tell if they're a better
founder than me and so I needed a little
meat on the bones and you're a Founder
now Harry so you know who's better than
you as as a Founder not just an investor
so Founders have this investing
superpower that money managers don't
have which is they know who's better
than them but if in SAS and B2B if you
do that pre-revenue you really can't be
sure Jason what happens with reops they
don't want new managers are they
re-upping I don't know uh I I should
have asked that question more and I
think we would have to ask other people
I think that if you have done reasonably
well as a manager you are still
earmarked for the next fund I think you
are still earmarked whether you will get
it uh and whether you will get it in the
same amount so the way you want I don't
I I don't know the answer I know that I
know that um other than one LP I
remained earmarked one LPD earmarked me
so that was a learning process
um but I know I'm here but it doesn't
mean I might not get any more money but
I know that I'm but like they've got the
budgeting process for LPS like I'm not
on the other side it's really
complicated between Capital calls and
timing and managers it's not it's not a
simple process to to to you you have to
plan you have to plan the science out of
it otherwise you're going to get hit
hard right it's so many capital calls
over so many years and so many managers
why did they DMR key did they tell you I
think they felt I was investing too
slowly and wanted to invest in in more
in crypto or a hotter manager they said
I hello you're investing too slowly what
you don't want vintage diversification
in this cycle that seems a little bit
sorry I'm just uh I agree with you
because I invested 35 of my Fund in you
know 17 18 months my lpac are going
that's fantastic news this is great you
know unlike every other manager you
deployed slowly good there is a certain
amount of pressure to deploy Capital but
LPS they're dealing with large pools of
capital and they they just don't want
unexpected they want expected risk yeah
they don't want the unexpected risk
that's what freaks them out right is um
uh you know there's this one fund out
there which who we won't name names who
raised they're huge I think it's their
third fund and they called 95 of it at
the peak and put most of it into some of
the hottest crypto names a well-known
fund and uh that's that's what LPS and
my limited by like not not to gossip in
a gossip industry my limited
understanding from The Limited overlap
is that the LPS did not expect 95 of
that fund to be called in the first year
on the reops from what I understand done
and I speak to a lot of LPS if you had
the chance to produce DPI last year and
you didn't you're in the bad books if
you deploy way too fast and left them
very very surprised on your deployment
Cycles you're in the bad books but
otherwise if you start to plan and you
actually prioritize the relationship
this is where I yeah I love people you
know me like if you did build the
relationship throughout cycles and
didn't just take money and say [__] off
actually and you start to plan they
should be there but likely in the same
nod and expanded capacity where they
would have expanded normally do you see
what I mean I think that's right with
with maybe the only family caveat for
newer man like yes I forget someone
great on Twitter said like the ultimate
LP judge was how many exits did you have
in 2021 right so I'm new but I did have
three billion dollar cash exits in 2021
in my investing career but I didn't make
those investments in 2021
if I hadn't started investing
oh instead of these
looking cats so I think new managers are
it's tough because there just wasn't
enough time for all but you know unless
you're in these super hot deals to
create those cash exits right you
probably are sitting on no GPI and it
doesn't mean your Investments are bad
but it's just that's a Time trouble
right is it these the just it there
there is secularity there man I had like
five billion dollar consumer companies I
think one is still one
so I mean but I'm talking about cash LPS
want to know how much I I think it's a
very important question for LPS to ask
is not just the fun but the GP they
should ask like you know if you didn't
have multiple billion dollar cash exits
in 2021 you're not a good investor right
that's the that that I saw that on
Twitter and it struck me as painfully
true if you did not as a GP if you've
been investing more than six or seven
years and you didn't have multiple
billion dollar cash outcomes and 20 at
the best because it was just so
accelerated you never will like the lp
should just quit on you but I speak to
LPS Jason I didn't see that transition
of power they're still like oh I
couldn't ask them for GP track there
that would they wouldn't like that it
still feels like the premier gp's tell
LPS how it's done and say speak to IR
teams
well sure
not to get lost in the weeds yeah the
best GPS don't want to deal with any of
the lp issues they want a team that just
handles that right uh that that's part
of the funds that we know and now that
inside that was terrifying like actually
the tier two tier threes still IR teams
and 700 million plus not to get really
lost in the weeds but you know there's a
line in and it's I don't know what the
AUM is or what the fun size is where are
you seed investing is not money
management okay I'm sure people that are
doing it longer than Mars would Echo
some version of this once you get up to
a certain size you are money managers
right your your month your money
managers of these illiquid Investments
and you do want these huge teams and you
want the the IR team and the folks doing
this um the the seed maybe maybe chat
gbt and all this will change it in AI
but it is still a weird hand curated
crafted weird space
that maybe YC has disrupted but no one
else has and
um you're not a money manager so you
need those direct LP relationships right
you need to do these things and I think
it's appropriate that when you're
managing billions as a GP someone else
can deal with it and like you know I I
was I'm an LP only in one you know top
tier huge fund but I get nothing
the the the the healthy updates there's
I don't know what they've invested in I
don't know and I think they carry a lot
of it at 1X like I literally know I've
been I've been an LP for like four years
I know nothing about the the underlined
I I other than what I read in TechCrunch
I know nothing about my investment
nothing I'm treated with utter contempt
and uh but they have the track record so
so be it Jason I know which one you're
talking about because I'm an LP in the
same fund and I go oh
nothing yeah nothing wrong with that
right it's it's not nothing wrong with
that Jason I want to finish on a quick
fire my friend but if we look forward to
the next year December 2023 will not be
in a better or in a worse place than we
are now first of all seed investors are
optimists I think right and I'm a
founder and Founders are optimists but
I'm based on all the downturns I've been
in the 2016 flash crash which we don't
talk about enough in SAS because it was
terrible when multiples failed the 2x 3x
uh from the global meltdown in 2008 to
um I have learned again and again that
things are brutal they seem to move in
slow motion and then they come back
pretty fast and they're never quite as
bad as we thought so I I find it very
difficult to believe that when we see
OCTA growing 40 at 2 billion okay when
we see the type of growth we see out
there that we will have these multiples
when we when the FED gets through
whatever the hell it's going to do and
we get on the other side of this I just
don't believe that we will have
multiples that are just this low in the
public market now I'm not a DCF guy and
I'm not going to talk to you about free
cash flows in 2084 okay I'm a just a
meat potato SAS guy but I've never seen
multiples this low and businesses were
this good okay I've only seen multiples
this low in businesses we're struggling
um or shrinking like in 2016 when
literally they were shrinking and so I'm
pretty bullish at the end of this year
um I'm bullish that multiples will be up
some are between 20 and 40 and I believe
that will lead to a rush to deploy
Capital but for founder is you have to
understand that will never lead to a
return of 2021.
never
never will be through buyers will be
back cios are still increasing spend
next year we're going to get through a
lot of things things will be at the end
of the year but we will never for
Founders that have only been in Market
or Founders for three or four years
realize that you lived in insane times
they will be better at the end of this
year than the start but you will never
the world will never work the way it
worked before it can't it can't it can't
we can't have adx AR public company
multiples they're not coming back we're
not going to see Zoom go from one to
four billion in one year ever again like
these this was a generational thing for
us right it's not going to happen again
I just love when I see some GPS we both
know he became a GP in 2010 and stopped
in 2020 and you're like the perfect 10
years 10 years the perfect 10 years yeah
um okay what are you the one thing I
would wrap I would end up to finalize
that I just and I think you would agree
with me I think the most Founders are
listening have gotten this far
there's a lot of advice which is wait
till the Market's thaw right it's not
that simple man
um they're not coming back they're not
bouncing back to 2021 they're not
bouncing back to Good Times they're just
going to get like a little bit better
but there's no thought if you can't
raise any money at all today like if
you're unfundable I don't think you're
gonna be fundable at the end of the year
okay if you're if you're if you're
fundable today but you don't you don't
like the metrics you don't like the
valuation you you double the end of this
year and you see some multiple recovery
you're gonna be pretty happy at the end
of the year right but if you're
unfundable today you're going to be
unfunderable even in a recovery we're
not do not wait for This Magic Moment
when air quotes the markets recover
because it doesn't exactly work that way
right uh you the bar is going to remain
high to be fundable for a very long
period of time especially series ba and
being later it's going to remain very
high Jason Murphy changed your mind
about in the past 24 months I don't have
the answer to the question I'll tell you
why maybe we could end on this I I've
spent the last 24 months relearning the
Unicorn lessons relearning that
companies I thought would never be
unicorns became unicorns that sociopath
CEOs became unicorns that [__]
artists became unicorns that folks that
did not have an extremely strong
understanding of the market became
unicorns and I felt like an idiot as
many of us did right I felt like an
idiot not investing in a bunch of these
companies where I just I couldn't see it
I couldn't see that they would become a
unicorn so now I'm relearning this this
lesson and
um and I think the lesson I'm learning
is you know no cut corners and that you
know the the bar is just insanely high
and so it should be and I I so I don't
know I'm still redigesting the fact that
we learned so many lessons for 24 months
and now we got to quickly unlearn them
because we turned out this stuff was
hard like it's all hard sass is hard
startups are hard it's meant to be hard
and I'll tell you my last little bit of
lack of sympathy but like you talked
about new Founders being emotional right
when I see like a Founder cry I have no
sympathy
and I know someone's going to listen to
this and be mad but I mean like it's
supposed to be hard like you cry a
little bit with me like Harry you and I
can cry we can end this we can cry a
little I don't mean that literally but
like
adult up I mean it's this stuff is hard
right so that's what we learned it's
hard it's meant to be hard you should
have a terrible year you should almost
run out of money like if I bet if you
went back in 20 BC and you interview and
you and you looked in the early days
almost every top founder I knew almost
ran out of money but they didn't they
almost they almost all have that great
story right you get them on stage
outside of the last two years you're
getting on stage you know we were three
weeks away we only we had to meet 7 000
investors and we only got one and those
stories kind of evaporated but they're
all going to come back my personal
favorite I got an investor update the
other day it said the good amazing team
off-site I was like when that is number
one oh yeah that's still not good it's
still not okay
um Jason I I love this this has been
fantastic as always and it's so helpful
for fans understanding games the year so
thank you so much my friend it's
wonderful okay thanks Harry best best of
luck to you and everyone in the audience
in 2023 let's it's gonna end this year
is gonna end better than it started
right so take advantage of it take take
advantage of it
[Music]